
These directories describe how we would generate Why from SPARK, or from
Ada under the spark profile. Each is about a specific feature of the
source langage; its name is formed from the corresponding section in the
Ada reference manual and the title of this section.

Each feature has been designed by first looking at what Jessie generates
for C in a similar case; then evaluating if Jessie's choices are
relevant in Ada as well in each specific case. Some general design
choices of Jessie have been kept, namely:

* naming convention:
  - if a logical function 'f' has to have an equivalent function in the
  program space, it will be named 'f_'.
  - if 'f' is a function in program space, 'safe_f' will stand for the
  same function assuming that absence of overflows has been proved already
  (see below).
  - if 'p' is a procedure/function in the source code, p_ensures_default
  will be used for proving conformity, whereas p_safety will be used to
  prove absence of run-time errors.
  
* "modular" approach:
  - absence of run-time errors is proved before conformity with contract;
  and the second one assumes the first one. This means that
  several conversion functions in program space have two versions, one (say,
  t1_of_t2) that has preconditions for overflows, and the other one
  (say, safe_t1_of_t2) that has no preconditions for overflows; and, for
  each procedure/function in source code, two why function will be generated
  in why's program space; one that has no postcondition, and uses the
  "fully-preconditioned" version of conversions (say, p_safety);
  and the second one that has postconditions but uses the "safe" version
  of conversions (say, p_ensures_default); the first one will only prove that
  no run-time errors are possible, given the function precondition; the
  second one will assume that the first one has been proven already, and
  will prove conformity with contract.

Appart from that, we will use the same naming convention as the one used in 
the expanded code. Say, procedure p in package pack will be named pack__p.
Logic encodings are separated from Ada identifiers using "___" to avoid
name clashes. These conventions are subject to modifications, depending on
what the expander actually generates.




